Omega Core Audit NT ™ App for Splunk ®
For Oracle Database

User's Guide

1.1.0

June, 2018

www.dataplus-al.com


Copyright © 2007-2018 DATAPLUS. All rights reserved. The Omega Core Audit NT Agent, Omega Core Audit NT App for Splunk 
and the DATAPLUS logo are trademarks of DATAPLUS. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS

1	Overview
1.1	Introducing Omega Core Audit NT App for Splunk
1.2	Solution Prerequisites
1.3	Solution architecture
1.4	Release notes
2	Installation
2.1	App install
2.2	Data Input
3	Omega Core Audit NT App for Splunk
3.1	The Oracle unified audit dataset
3.2	Launching the application
3.3	Core Audit NT Dashboard - app's main
3.4	Audit Trail Administrative dashboard
3.5	Audit Trail Standard dashboard
3.6	Audit Trail General dashboard
3.7	Reports
4	Appendixes
4.1	Appendix A - Technical Support and Copyrights


1	Overview

1.1	Introducing Omega Core Audit NT App for Splunk

Omega Core Audit NT App for Splunk integrates the Omega Core Audit NT Agent software solution with the Splunk SIEM system. 

The audit trail records of your Oracle databases are periodically delivered on-the-fly to Splunk, enabling storage of 
audit information in a central location, visualization and quick access of audit data history.
The Omega Core Audit NT App for Splunk provides an Executive, Security Analysts and Operational view on the activity 
performed on the enterprise's Oracle databases, derived from the DATAPLUS solutions.
 	 	 

1.2	Solution Prerequisites

Omega Core Audit NT Agent by DATAPLUS

Omega Core Audit NT App for Splunk ingests audit records delivered only from the Omega Core Audit NT Agent software!

You need this other free DATAPLUS software-solution only to monitor the Oracle audit trails generated as Windows Events 
in NT systems and deliver them on-the-fly to your Splunk server! 

For more information on Omega Core Audit NT Agent please visit our site: 

www.dataplus-al.com
	

Splunk

Version supported:	6.3 and above


1.3	Solution architecture  

The Omega Core Audit NT Agent continuously monitor for new Oracle database audit trail records generated as Windows Events. 
It extracts the Oracle database Administrative and Standard Audit fields from the NT Event message and delivers audit records 
to Splunk in a unified audit trail XML record.
When in the Splunk central repository, audit events information is managed and visualized via the Omega Core Audit NT App for Splunk.

NT Agents deployed in multiple operating systems are supported by the Omega Core Audit NT App for Splunk!
The NT Agent on its own supports multiple databases installed in the same OS!


Splunk Considerations

1. Delivery of records

As above stated, the Omega Core Audit NT App for Splunk ingests data delivered from the Omega Core Audit NT Agent software only!
The audit records are delivered via the Splunk TCP Data Input (direct) method only.

2. "Native" solution

The Omega Core Audit NT App for Splunk strives to conform to the later best practices and mostly uses only Simple XML and a few CSS, 
while being totally free from any third party App or Add-On! You will need only Splunk to make it run!


1.4	Release notes

What's new in 1.1.0?

1. New report Logon-Logoff added 


Fixed issues in 1.1.0

Searching has been improved in regard to performance.


Known issues in 1.1.0

Issue 1:

Memo-type string field Control Output does not preserve Enter/New Lines characters (which are present) when displayed in Splunk. However the formatting is preserved when seen as raw event!



2	Installation

2.1	App install

The Omega Core Audit NT App for Splunk has been provided as a ".spl" file. Follow the standard app install procedure in Splunk 
through the "Manage Apps" menu to install the Omega Core Audit NT App for Splunk.


GUI Install 

1.	Download the omega_core_audit_nt.spl file. 
2.	Navigate to Splunk menu "Apps" -> "Manage Apps". 
3.	Click on "Install app from file". 
4.	In the form that opens, press the gray "Browse…" button to load the downloaded file.
5.	Press the green "Upload" button to install the App.
6.	Optionally restart Splunk (for example if want to immediately show the App's logo on Splunk menus)  

The following objects are created during install:

*	omega_ca_nt		Splunk index containing Omega Core Audit NT App data. 
*	omega_ca_nt_st		Splunk Source Type for data coming to Splunk by Omega Core Audit NT Agent.
*	TCP Data Input 		Created by default in TCP port 50000, the same set default Splunk port in the 
				Omega Core Audit NT Agent initialization parameter

The OS folder name of the Omega Core Audit NT App for Splunk is: 

omega_core_audit_nt


Manual Install

1.	Download the Omega Core Audit NT App for Splunk .zip file
2.	Navigate to the OS folder /splunk/etc/app
3.	Extract the content of the file, creating folder omega_core_audit_nt
4.	Restart Splunk.


2.2	Data Input

The Omega Core Audit NT App for Splunk currently (*) uses only the TCP Data Input to ingest audit trail records delivered
only by the Omega Core Audit NT Agent. The TCP port can be set to any number appropriate (for example 50000) as decided 
by the OS admin or installing personnel. You can create the TCP Input in the Splunk GUI interface. 
In the Splunk main menu Settings -> Input Data, in the form Data Inputs that opens, group TCP, press the Add New link item
on the right. Follow the Splunk Add Data wizard and confirm in the end like in the following before submit.

Alternatively you can create the "inputs.conf" file directly on the OS, under the omega_core_audit_nt/default directory of 
the App in OS with the following content:
	
inputs.conf

[tcp://50000]
connection_host = none
host = OmegaCANT
index = omega_ca_nt
sourcetype = omega_ca_nt_st 

Note:

You would normally work under the /local directory and not /default when configuring Splunk directly at OS level, as this way 
you conform to the Splunk requirements on the subject. However in the situation above we are dealing with a one-time manual install; 
and we are also working with something that is not supposed to change frequently (the TCP Data port) once it is set!


3	Omega Core Audit NT App for Splunk

3.1	The Oracle unified audit dataset

As previously stated, the Omega Core Audit NT App for Splunk ingests audit records delivered only from the Omega Core Audit NT Agent software! The later delivers the Oracle audit trail records to Splunk in an unified audit dataset in the form of a XML record.

Omega Core Audit NT Agent features a unified audit dataset, composed of different audit types for the:

*	Administrative audit
*	Standard audit
*	General system audit

The Oracle Unified Audit Dataset fields sent to SIEM, formatted by Oracle version/maintenance and audit type.

Field Name	11gR1-12cR1	>= 12cR2	Description
		Adm.	Std.	Adm.	Std.	
NT_RECORD_NO	x	x	x	x	NT Event field EventRecordID
NT_USER	x	x	x	x		NT Event field User
NT_TYPE	x	x	x	x		NT Event field Level, available options:
						Information, Warning, Error, Critical
NT_EVENT_ID	x	x	x	x	NT Event field EventID
AUDIT_TYPE	x	x	x	x	Audit Type indicating audit Administrative, Standard or General; other types are: 
						Unknown - for messages not recognized
						ExtErr - for extraction process failure in Administrative/Standard
TIMESTAMP_STS	x	x	x	x	NT Event field Date and Time, Oracle database audit trail date-time created
DB_HOST	x	x	x	x		NT Event field ComputerName, Oracle database Host
DB_NAME	x	x	x	x		Oracle database SID name, derived from NT Event field Source
USERNAME	x	x	x	x	Database user name whose actions were audited
ADMIN_PRIV	x		x		Oracle Administrative Privilege, available options:  
						SYSDBA, SYSOPER,NONE
PRIVILEGE_ID		x		x	Unique identifier of the system privilege used to execute the action audited
SYSTEM_PRIVILEGE	x		x	System privilege name used to execute the action
ACTION_ID		x	x	x	Unique identifier of the action audited
ACTION_NAME		x	x	x	Name of the action audited
ACTION_CMD	x		x		Full (SQL text) action of the audited Administrative command
USERHOST		x	x	x	Oracle user's client host machine name
OS_USER	x	x	x	x		Oracle user's  operating system login username 
TERMINAL	x	x	x	x	Oracle user's  identifier of the user's terminal
SESSIONID		x	x	x	Oracle user's session identifier 
ENTRYID		x		x		Numeric ID for each audit trail entry in the session
STATEMENTID		x		x	nth statement in the user session
OBJECT_OWNER		x		x	Database Owner account of the object affected by the action
OBJECT_NAME		x		x	Name of the Database object affected by the action
LOGOFF_LREAD		x		x	Number of logical reads for the session
LOGOFF_PREAD		x		x	Number of physical reads for the session
LOGOFF_LWRITE		x		x	Number of logical writes for the session
LOGOFF_DEAD		x		x	Number of deadlocks detected during the session
SESSION_CPU		x		x	Amount of CPU time used by each Oracle session
CLIENT_ADDRESS			x		Text comment on the audit trail entry
COMMENT_TEXT		x		x	Text comment on the audit trail entry
IP_ADDRESS		x	x	x	IP address of the connected database user
NET_PROTOCOL		x	x	x	Network protocol of the connected database user
NET_PORT		x	x	x	Network Port of the connected database user
SYS_OPTIONS		x		x	Numeric identifier for granted privileges or audited options
SYS_PRIVILEGE		x		x	System privileges granted or revoked
OBJ_PRIVILEGE		x		x	Object privileges granted or revoked
GRANTEE		x		x		Grantee of the privilege, audited user on audit statements
AUDIT_OPTION		x		x	Auditing option set
CURRENT_USER				x	Effective user for the statement execution
RETURNCODE	x	x	x	x	Oracle error code generated by the action. Ex:
						0 - Action succeeded.  
						6564 - Object does not exist
DBID	x	x	x	x		Numeric database identifier of the audited database
NT_MESSAGE	x	x	x	x	NT Event original message text


Notes

1.	Oracle administrative and standard audit fields' availability differs on the database version/release!
2.	Configuring the Oracle database for auditing in accordance with Omega Core Audit NT Agent requirements 
is presented in the User Guide of the later.


3.2	Launching the application

The Omega Core Audit NT App for Splunk is accessed from the Splunk Apps menu or from the Splunk launcher home page.


3.3	Core Audit NT Dashboard - app's main

Top-level summary and app's main, the Core Audit NT Dashboard displays summary information on audited events 
collected from monitored Oracle databases. 

The Time dimension controls all data presented. Use the Database Dropdown to view audited events data for all 
or a single chosen Database. 
 
Dashboards tables and charts:

Administrative Audit	Line chart displays general Administrative audited activity.

Standard Audit		Line chart displays general Standard audited activity.

Actions			Pie chart displays audited events by Action Name.

DB Users		Pie chart displays audited events by database Username.

OS Users		Pie chart displays audited events by OS User.

User Hosts		Pie chart displays audited events by User Host.

Audit Trail Summary	Table displays a summary of audited events. 
					

3.4	Audit Trail Administrative dashboard

The Audit Trail Administrative dashboard displays graphical summary and detailed information on administrative
audited events collected from monitored Oracle databases.

The Time dimension controls all data presented. Use the Database dropdown to view audited events data for all 
or a single chosen Database. Use the Privilege and Action Name fields for further top-search options.

Dashboards tables and charts:

Administrative Audit		Line chart displays general Administrative audited activity.

Actions				Pie chart displays audited events by Action Name.

OS Users			Pie chart displays audited events by OS User.

Terminals			Pie chart displays audited events by Terminal.

User Hosts			Pie chart displays audited events by User Host.

Administrative Audit Trail	Table displays Administrative Audit records. Use controls on the top for extra 
				searching of the events. Clicking on each table's record will drill-down to 
				the Audit Trail Administrative Details dashboard.


3.5	Audit Trail Standard dashboard

The Audit Trail Standard dashboard displays graphical summary and detailed information on standard audited 
events collected from monitored Oracle databases.

The Time dimension controls all data presented. Use the Database dropdown to view audited events data for all 
or a single chosen Database. Use the Username, Action Name and Object Owner fields for further top-search options.

 

Standard Audit:	Line chart displays general Standard audited activity.

Actions			Pie chart displays audited events by Action Name.

DB Users		Pie chart displays audited events by database Username.

OS Users		Pie chart displays audited events by OS User.

User Hosts		Pie chart displays audited events by User Host.

Object Owners		Pie chart displays audited events by Object (schema) Owner.

Standard Audit Trail	Table displays Standard Audit records. Use controls on the top for extra 
			searching of the events. Clicking on each table's record will drill-down to 
			the Audit Trail Standard Details dashboard.


3.6	Audit Trail General dashboard

The Audit Trail General dashboard displays graphical summary and detailed information on general system audited 
events collected from monitored Oracle databases.

The Time dimension controls all data presented. Use the Database dropdown to view audited events data for all
or a single chosen Database. Use the multi-select NT Event IDs fields for further top-search options.


Dashboards tables and charts:

General Audit:	Line chart displays general system audited activity.

General Audit Trail			Table displays General Audit records. 


3.7	Reports

Privilege Management 

GRANT and REVOKE commands performed.

Audit Management 

AUDIT and NOAUDIT commands performed.

Logon-Logoff 

User Logons and Logoffs


4	Appendixes

4.1	Appendix A - Technical Support and Copyrights

Support:

Omega Core Audit NT App for Splunk is a free to use in live, production, commercial and test systems for all 
users of the Omega Core Audit NT Agent software; 
Provided that the data inputted to the Omega Core Audit NT App for Splunk comes only by the 
Omega Core Audit NT Agent software and strictly conforming to the instructions of the later!

Support levels of Omega Core Audit NT App for Splunk are those of the Omega Core Audit NT Agent solution. 
They are found in the documentation of the Omega Core Audit NT Agent, Support topic. 		

Questions related the Omega Core Audit NT App for Splunk can be asked at:	
https://answers.splunk.com

All things related to the Oracle database belong to the support of the Omega Core Audit NT Agent software's as 
stated in our website.

DATAPLUS is committed to its further development and improvement, as this work is a courtesy of DATAPLUS to 
all Oracle database security related professionals!

For product documentation, forum and knowledge base, please visit our site:	
www.dataplus-al.com 

For technical issues, comments, ideas and impressions, please e-mail us at: 	
support@dataplus-al.com

For commercial support levels, please e-mail us at:
sales@dataplus-al.com


DATAPLUS
Tirana, Albania
Street Address: Bul. Zog I, P. "Edicom", 8F.
E-Mail: 	info@dataplus-al.com
Cel: 		+355 68 2061664
Tel: 		+355 42419275

Follow us on the following social media sites:

YouTube DATAPLUS channel:	https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCa59qQuGg5tvd2vIe1MsMOw

LinkedIn DATAPLUS page:	https://www.linkedin.com/company/dataplus-al

Peerlyst DATAPLUS page:	https://www.peerlyst.com/companies/dataplus/dashboard


Copyright:

Copyright © 2007-2018 DATAPLUS. All rights reserved. Omega Core Audit App for Splunk is protected by US, EU and 
international copyright laws. No part of this work may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, adopted or 
transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or otherwise, translated in any language or computer language, 
without the prior written permission of DATAPLUS. The Omega Core Audit NT Agent, Omega Core Audit App for Splunk 
and the DATAPLUS logo are trademarks of DATAPLUS. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
