Omega DB Scanner ™ App for Splunk ®
For Oracle Database

User's Guide

1.5.0

April, 2018

www.dataplus-al.com


© 2007-2018 DATAPLUS. All rights reserved. The Omega DB Scanner software editions, Omega DB Scanner App for Splunk and 
the DATAPLUS logo are trademarks of DATAPLUS. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

 
TABLE OF CONTENTS

1	Overview	
1.1	Introducing Omega DB Scanner App for Splunk	
1.2	Solution Prerequisites	
1.3	Solution architecture	
1.4	Release notes	
2	Installation	
2.1	App install	
2.2	Scan data input	
3	Omega DB Scanner App for Splunk	
3.1	The scan dataset	
3.2	Launching the application	
3.3	Scanner Dashboard - app's main	
3.4	Scan Data dashboard	
3.5	Scan Item Details dashboard	
3.6	Scan Compare dashboard	
3.7	Scan Compare Details dashboard	
3.8	Tools	
3.8.1	Vulnerability Profile dashboard	
3.8.2	Scan Content dashboard	
4	Appendixes	
4.1	Appendix A1 - Omega DB Scanner editions support	
4.2	Appendix A2 - Use Case	
4.3	Appendix B - Technical Support and Copyrights	


1	Overview

1.1	Introducing Omega DB Scanner App for Splunk

Omega DB Scanner App for Splunk integrates the Omega DB Scanner software solutions with the Splunk SIEM system. 

The assessed security posture of your Oracle databases is periodically delivered to Splunk, enabling storage of your 
scans results in a central location, visualization and quick access of scan data history; and assessment of the former
via the graphical interface of our App running on the commodity of the Splunk system.

The Omega DB Scanner App for Splunk provides an Executive, Security Analysts and Operational view of the security 
posture of the enterprise's Oracle databases derived from the DATAPLUS solutions.
 	 	 

1.2	Solution Prerequisites

Omega DB Scanner by DATAPLUS

Omega DB Scanner App for Splunk ingests scan results data produced by the following DATAPLUS software:

*	Omega DB Scanner Standalone (and Free) edition
*	Omega DB Scanner Professional (and Commercial) edition

You need one of the Omega DB Scanner software editions (*) to perform the security scan of your Oracle databases and send
the data to the Splunk system! Splunk operation instructions are given in the documentation of each Omega DB Scanner 
edition.

For more information on Omega DB Scanner software editions please visit our site: 
www.dataplus-al.com

* for detailed information on versions supported refer to Appendix A1 - Omega DB Scanner editions support


Splunk

Version supported:	6.3 and above


1.3	Solution architecture  

Oracle databases are automatically scanned and the results sent to Splunk by the Omega DB Scanner Professional edition. 
Alternatively the same process can performed manually via the Omega DB Scanner Standalone edition. In both cases Scan 
results terminate to the Splunk central repository and from there are managed and visualized via the Omega DB Scanner 
App for Splunk.


Splunk Considerations

1. Delivery of records

As above stated, the Omega DB Scanner App for Splunk ingests data generated from the Omega DB Scanner software editions!
The scan records are currently delivered via the Splunk TCP Data Input (direct) method only; the above has been chosen 
as a simple way to set the process, but the even on the conditions of the Standalone edition only being released. 
In future, delivery via Splunk UF (agent) will be considered for both editions of the Omega DB Scanner!

2. "Native" solution

The Omega DB Scanner App for Splunk strives to conform to the later best practices and mostly uses only Simple XML and 
a few CSS, while being totally free from any third party App or Add-On! You will need only Splunk to make it run!

3. Divergences from normal Splunk "way"

The usual model of the log record is that of time-growing dataset - be it file lines, file blocks, multiple files in a
directory, or even database records. The records generated have a certain spread in time and continuity (this is of 
course subjective by case). In this aspect the timestamp of every record is surely most important!

However, by the nature of our App (Omega DB Scanner), which as the name implies it is a "Scanner", differs somehow from
the nature, not exactly of Splunk, but of most systems whose logs Splunk ingests. The model of a Scanner log is not 
that of time-growing log, but to that of a periodic sets coming, each one containing records. The records are visually 
(in Splunk) represented as "burst in time", ex. once a day, once a week, other than time-growing. In this aspect the 
timestamp of every record is not important and the "_time" field is set on arrival and not exactly when the target 
system was scanned!  


1.4	Release notes

What's new in 1.5.0?

1. Real item scan date delivered to Splunk SIEM highlighted

Splunk field _TIME is now provided with the target database scanned vulnerability real date and time (in UTC format).

2. Health by Severity Dashboard Day based highlighted

In the main form Dashboard, the Health by Severity Dashboard has changed from "SCAN_ID" based to date time "Day" based.

3. Scan Compare initialized via Submit button

In the forms Scan Compare, the comparison is now invoked manually by the Submit button introduced. 

4. New Scan Summary dashboards added to main forms

Scan Summary dashboard added to forms Dashboard and Scan Data. Comparison Summary dashboard added to form Scan Compare. 

5. Full-free-search on Scan Content
 
In the form Scan Content there is no more need to complete either the Control Summary or the Control Output to retrieve results.


Fixed issues in 1.5.0

Searching has been improved in regard to performance.


Known issues in 1.5.0

Issue 1:

Slave (*) Dropdowns are not cleared of the old choice when master changes. This issue is present in forms "Scan Data" and "Scan Compare". 
Slave Dropdown value must be completed manually

* in the meaning that "slave" dropdown options are populated depended on the choice made on the "master".

Issue 2:

Memo-type string field Control Output does not preserve Enter/New Lines characters (which are present) when displayed in Splunk. 
However the formatting is preserved when seen as raw event!


2	Installation

2.1	App install

The Omega DB Scanner App for Splunk has been provided as a ".spl" file. Follow the standard app install procedure in 
Splunk through the "Manage Apps" menu to install the Omega DB Scanner App for Splunk.


GUI Install 

1.	Download the omega_db_scanner.spl file. 
2.	Navigate to Splunk menu "Apps" -> "Manage Apps". 
3.	Click on "Install app from file". 
4.	In the form that opens, press the gray "Browse…" button to load the downloaded file.
5.	Press the green "Upload" button to install the App.
6.	Optionally restart Splunk (for example if want to immediately show the App's logo on Splunk menus)  
 

The following objects are created during install:

* omega_ds	Splunk index containing Omega DB Scanner App data. 
* omega_ds_st	Splunk Source Type for data coming to Splunk by Omega DB Scanner software's.


The OS folder name of the Omega DB Scanner App for Splunk is: 

omega_db_scanner


Manual Install

1.	Download the omega_db_scanner.zip file
2.	Navigate to the OS folder /splunk/etc/app
3.	Extract the content of the file, creating folder omega_db_scanner
4.	Restart Splunk.


2.2	Scan data input

The Omega DB Scanner App for Splunk currently (*) uses only the TCP Data Input to ingest in Splunk data that are 
produced currently only by the Omega DB Scanner Standalone edition (the Professional edition is currently under 
development and will be released as earlier stated). 

The TCP port can be set to any number appropriate (for example 40000) as decided by the OS admin or installing personnel.

You can create the TCP Input in the Splunk GUI interface. In the Splunk main menu Settings -> Input Data, in the form
Data Inputs that opens, group TCP, press the Add New link item on the right. Follow the Splunk Add Data wizard and 
confirm in the end like in the following before submit.

Alternatively you can create the "inputs.conf" file directly on the OS, under the omega_db_scanner/default directory of 
the App in OS with the following content:
 	
inputs.conf

[tcp://40000]
connection_host = none
host = OmegaDS
index = omega_ds
sourcetype = omega_ds_st


Note:

You would normally work under the /local directory and not /default when configuring Splunk directly at OS level, as 
this way you conform to the Splunk requirements on the subject. However in the situation above we are dealing with a 
one-time manual install; and we are also working with something that is not supposed to change frequently (the TCP 
Data port) once it is set!


3	Omega DB Scanner App for Splunk

3.1	The scan dataset

Scan Set fields generated by the Omega DB Scanner software editions for the Omega DB Scanner App for Splunk:

Field Name	Description

Scan Id		Scan Id - Unique Identification codified string representing of Scan set.

Database	Database name scanned.

DB Host		Database Hostname.

Vln. Id		Identification number of the deployed vulnerability control.

Vulnerability	Name of the deployed vulnerability control.

Severity	Severities of the vulnerability, available values are: 
		High, Medium, Low

Category	Categories of the vulnerability, available values are:
		Audit, Authentication, Authorization, Backup-Availability, General Security.

Scan Code	Return Code of the Scan, available values are:
		Completed	Scan completed successfully, ideally the only returned.
		Error		Scan failed with program error
		System Error	Scan failed with Oracle error

Scan Message	Return Message of the Scan, related to the Scan Code, available values are:
		Completed Scan	completed successfully
		<Error>		Returned program error message
		<Oracle Error>	Returned Oracle error code ORA-XXXXX and message

Control Find	Control Code (Result) of the Scan, available values are:
		Correct	Vulnerability control is correct
		Finding	Vulnerability control is a Finding
		Broken	Vulnerability control has not run because of errors

Control Summary	Vulnerability control's summary result; comma-separated when multiple values.

Control Output	Vulnerability control's full result; mostly grouped by item assessed within the control, gives 
		detailed information on the control's security posture, valid for remediation and authorization.

Important Notes:

1. The "_time' field of the scan record (and Splunk event) is set as per the timestamp of arrival in Splunk (see 
DATETIME_CONFIG = , in props.conf).
2. Carefully read the Omega DB Scanner editions documentation, parts related to Splunk setup and operation, for more 
information on Scan Set fields that are send to Splunk!


3.2	Launching the application

The Omega DB Scanner App is accessed from the Splunk Apps menu or from the Splunk launcher home page.

 	 
3.3	Scanner Dashboard - app's main

Top-level summary and app's main, the Scanner Dashboard displays summary information on scans performed on all databases. 

The Time dimension controls all information presented. Use the Database Dropdown to view scan data for all or a single 
chosen Database. 

Dashboards tables and charts:

Scans Summary 	scans summary results.

Health by Severity:  		Multi-line chart displays the system[s] Health by the three Severity levels of the vulnerabilities. 
				Health is the ratio calculated per Severity as a Daily percentage of the number of scanned controls 
				that returned Correct vs. the Total (Findings + Correct).

Scans by Result - last 30	Chart displays the last 30 scans.

Scan Results			Table displays scan results in sumary.


Clicking on each chart/table will drill-down respectively to the dashboards (later described): 

"	Scan Data 	when all Databases have been searched 
"	Scan Compare	when a single Database has been searched  

In both cases, respective applicable inputs on the target dashboards will be completed with values of the specific of chart's or 
table's respective item or record clicked.


3.4	Scan Data dashboard

The Scan Data dashboard displays detailed information on scans performed up to the level of the scanned vulnerability 
item.

The Time dimension controls all information presented. Use the Database dropdown to view scan data for all or a single 
chosen Database. Use the Scan Id to view scan data for all or a single chose one.

Dashboards tables and charts:

Scans Summary 			scans summary results.

Scan Results			Pie chart displays scan results totals.

Last 10 Scan Results…		Column chart displays the last 10 scan results by Scan Id.

Scan Results by Severity	Column chart displays scan results by Severity.

Scan Results by Category	Column chart displays scan results by Category.

Scan Items			Table displays scanned vulnerability records. Clicking on each table's record will 
				drill-down to the Scan Item Details dashboard (described in own topic). Use the 
				dropdowns Control Find, Severity, Category and the Vulnerability edit box to further 
				search and filter with respective options. 


3.5	Scan Item Details dashboard

The Scan Item Details dashboard shows all fields of the scanned vulnerability control. This form is drilled down from 
the Scan Data, Vulnerability Profile and Scan Content dashboards.

Single record table Scan Item Details displays all fields of the selected scan item record.	 


3.6	Scan Compare dashboard

Comparing two scans at vulnerability level and showing effective differences is a top-feature of the Omega DB Scanner 
App for Splunk that allows for intelligent monitoring and tracing of DB's security posture change over time.

When you first open this dashboard, the Database Dropdown will be empty and so the two scans. Choose the Database, 
the Scan Id Run and the Baseline one. The Comparison dropdown enables display of all records, or those having changes 
(of any kind) only. Press the Submit button to perform the comparison. 

Dashboards tables and charts:

Comparison Summary 		scans comparison summary results.

Changes by Severity		Column chart displays changes by severity found in the comparison of the two scans.

Changes by Category		Column chart displays changes by category found in the comparison of the two scans.

Vulnerability Controls		Single value chart displays total vulnerabilities compared.

Vulnerability Summary		Table displays comparison summary by Compare Codes.

Scan Comparison Run -> Baseline	Table displays compared vulnerability scan records. Clicking on each table's record will
				drill-down to the Scan Compare Details dashboard (described in own topic). The Comparison
				dropdown enables search by Changes Only (default value), or ALL records. Use the dropdowns
				Severity, Category and the Vulnerability edit box to further search and filter with 
				respective options. 

Description of the Scan Compare Codes follows in the table below:

Compare Code	Description
 
Aborted			Comparison of item did not complete, possible options:
			Scan Run item has not completed, field Scan Code is either System Error or Oracle Error
			Scan Baseline item has not completed, field Scan Code is either System Error or Oracle Error
			Scan Baseline item not found vs. Run.

Control Improve		Item's Control Find field is Finding in the Baseline and Correct in Run.

Control Decline		Items' Control Find field is Correct in the Baseline and Finding in Run.

Minor Improve		Item's Control Find field is Finding in both Baseline and Run, but fewer items are found in the 
			Scan Run item's Control Summary.

Minor Decline		Item's Control Find field is Finding in both Baseline and Run, but more items are found into the 
			Scan Run item's Control Summary.

Change			Item's Control Find is Finding in both Baseline and Run, but there is change in the Control 
			Summary field between Scan Run and Baseline.

Unchanged		Item's Control Find is the same in both Baseline and Run, the only not showing in the two 
			comparison charts.


Compare Message		Item's Control Find is the same in both Baseline and Run.


3.7	Scan Compare Details dashboard

The Scan Compare Details dashboard shows all fields of the Scan Run and Baseline for the selected vulnerability control.
This form is drilled down from the Scan Compare dashboard.

Dashboards tables:

Vulnerability Control		Single record table displays fields specific to the vulnerability control.

Vulnerability Scan Run		Single record table displays fields specific to the Scan Run. 

Vulnerability Scan Baseline	Single record table displays fields specific to the Scan Baseline.


3.8	Tools

The app contains the following tools-like dashboards.

3.8.1	Vulnerability Profile dashboard

This dashboard displays the scan history of a selected Vulnerability. You can browse it hierarchically via the Severity
and Category dropdowns, however all Vulnerabilities will display in the Dropdown list if the two former stay empty. Use
the database dropdown to filter results by database scanned.

Dashboards tables and charts:

Vulnerability Scan History	Column chart where each one shows a single scan result for the selected vulnerability

Scan Items			Table displays scan records for the selected vulnerability. Clicking on each table's 
				record will drill-down to the Scan Item Details dashboard (described in own topic). 
				Use the dropdown Control Find to further search and filter records. 


3.8.2	Scan Content dashboard

In this dashboard you can search scan records by the two important scan result fields Control Summary and Control Result. 

Dashboards tables and charts:

Last 15 Scan results…		Column chart where each one shows a single scan result for the selected vulnerability.

Scan Results by Severity	Column chart displays scan results by Severity.

Scan Results by Category	Column chart displays scan results by Category.

Scan Items			Table displays scanned vulnerability records. Clicking on each table's record will 
				drill-down to the Scan Item Details dashboard (described in own topic). Use the 
				dropdowns Control Find, Severity, Category and the Vulnerability edit box to further 
				search and filter with respective options. 


4	Appendixes


4.1	Appendix A1 - Omega DB Scanner editions support

The current version of Omega DB Scanner App for Splunk is compatible with the following editions of 
Omega DB Scanner applications:

Omega DB Scanner Standalone		2.0.1 * and 2.1.0
Omega DB Scanner Professional		1.1.0
 
* Splunk field _TIME provided with Scan Item real UTC not available


4.2	Appendix A2 - Use Case and demo

The following provides a simple use case and demonstration of the solution's features and operations. 

1. Install Omega DB Scanner App for Splunk on a new clean Splunk environment.

2. Install a new test Oracle database 11g R2, OS independent and with the most default settings, 
whenever presented by the setup routine.

3. A fresh install of either Omega DB Scanner Standalone or Professional edition. For the later, 
just a new DB profile created in an existing installation would be enough. Configured for the test 
target Oracle database (and also to Splunk) and ready to scan the database.


Use case rationale:

As stated above, the Omega DB Scanner App for Splunk receives data only from Omega Db Scanner 
software editions, namely the Standalone and the Professional! 

This use case is the same one presented in the "Use Case" topic of the respective 
Omega DB Scanner Standalone and Professional User's Guide documents! 

After each scan round and Splunk delivery, monitor the records in the App for Splunk!


Use case Scans:


1. First scan set:

Rationale:
The first scan will assess and collect the existing database's security posture and serve as a starting point. 
Do perform on the Oracle 11g R2 database in its state immediately after install.

Action:
Run the 1-st scan with Omega DB Scanner send it to Splunk!

Diagnostics:
-


2. Second scan set

Rationale:
Lock of Management Agent, Oracle Enterprise Manager Database Control and Oracle Enterprise Manager accounts DBSNMP, 
MGMT_VIEW and SYSMAN.    

Action:
Run the 2-st scan with Omega DB Scanner send it to Splunk!

Diagnostics:
Notice the improved changes in security controls.


3. Third scan set

Rationale:
Lock of the well-known Oracle DBA user account SYSTEM.

Action:
Run the 3-st scan with Omega DB Scanner send it to Splunk!

Diagnostics:
Notice the improved changes in security controls.


4. Fourth scan set

Rationale:
Revoke of the EXECUTE privilege from PUBLIC in certain Oracle DBMS_% system packages.    

Action:
Run the 4-st scan with Omega DB Scanner send it to Splunk!

Diagnostics:
Notice the improved changes in security controls.


5. Fifth scan set

Rationale:
New TESTDBA user created and granted the DBA role.

Action:
Run the 5-st scan with Omega DB Scanner send it to Splunk!

Diagnostics:
Notice the declined changes in security controls.


6. Sixth scan set

Rationale:
New TESTDBA user (the new DBA) authorized in all applying vulnerabilities.

Action:
Run the 6-st scan with Omega DB Scanner send it to Splunk!
 
Diagnostics:
Notice the improved changes in security controls.


Conclusions:

The use case above was simplified enough to enable a quick presentation of the solution's capabilities. 

However the effects of manipulating DBA accounts were strongly highlighted in multiple points and not a single one as 
you might have usually seen in many DB scanner software. 

Read the Omega DB Scanner documentation on the topic of the advanced feature "Effective privilege (role hierarchy) 
evaluation:" and more.


4.3	Appendix B - Technical Support and Copyrights

Support:

Omega DB Scanner Standalone App for Splunk is a free to use in live, production, commercial and test systems for all: 

*	Users of the Omega DB Scanner Standalone (Free) edition.
*	Customers of the Omega DB Scanner Professional (Commercial) edition.

and also provided that the data inputted to the Omega DB Scanner Standalone App for Splunk comes only by the 
Omega DB Scanner software editions family and strictly conforming to the instructions of the later!

Support levels of Omega DB Scanner Standalone App for Splunk are those of the Omega DB Scanner edition chosen in your 
implementation of our solution. They are found in the documentation of the respective Omega DB Scanner editions, 
Support topic. 		

Questions related the Omega DB Scanner App for Splunk can be asked at:	
https://answers.splunk.com

All things related to the Oracle database belong to the support of the Omega DB Scanner software's as stated in our website.

DATAPLUS is committed to its further development and improvement, as this work is a courtesy of DATAPLUS to all Oracle
database security related professionals!

For product documentation, forum and knowledge base, please visit our site:	
www.dataplus-al.com 

For technical issues, comments, ideas and impressions, please e-mail us at: 	
support@dataplus-al.com


DATAPLUS
Tirana, Albania
Street Address: Bul. Zog I, P. "Edicom", 8F.
E-Mail: 	info@dataplus-al.com
Cel: 		+355 68 2061664
Tel: 		+355 42419275


Follow us on the following social media sites:

YouTube DATAPLUS channel:	https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCa59qQuGg5tvd2vIe1MsMOw

LinkedIn DATAPLUS page:		https://www.linkedin.com/company/dataplus-al

Peerlyst DATAPLUS page:		https://www.peerlyst.com/companies/dataplus/dashboard


Copyright:

Copyright © 2007-2018 DATAPLUS. All rights reserved. Omega DB Scanner App for Splunk is protected by US and international
copyright laws. No part of this work may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, adopted or transmitted in any form
or by any means, electronic or otherwise, translated in any language or computer language, without the prior written 
permission of DATAPLUS. Omega DB Scanner and the DATAPLUS logo are trademarks of DATAPLUS. All other trademarks are the
property of their respective owners.